.TH SKULL 1 "JANURARY 2022" "Linux" "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
.B skull\fR \- A strict, static, and strongly typed programming language.

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBskull\fR [\fB\-v\fR|\fB\-\-version\fR|\fB\-h\fR|\fB\-\-help\fR]

\fBskull\fR \fIfile\fR [\fB\-S\fR|\fB\-E\fR|\fB\-c\fR|\fB\-\-c\-backend\fR]
           [\fB\-gq\fR]
           [\fB\-\-werror\fR]
           [\fB\-O1\fR|\fB\-O2\fR|\fB\-O3\fR]
           [\fB\-o\fR \fIoutput\fR]
           [\fB\-\-llvm\-no\-verify\fR]
           [\fB\-\-color\fR]
           [\fB\-\-\fR \fIargs\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBskull\fR is a strict, static, and strongly typed programming language.
It strives to be as maintainable, readable, and powerful as possible.
It allows for compilation to native binaries, assembler, C, and LLVM IR
out of the box.

\fIfile\fR must end with the ".sk" extension. For brevity, since the ".sk"
extension is removed when outputting files, whenever \fIfile\fR is
referenced in the context of a filename, it is implied that the ".sk"
extension has been removed.

If no flags are passed, \fBskull\fR will compile \fIfile\fR into an executable
named \fIfile\fR.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-version
Print version and exit.

.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Print basic usage.

.TP
.B \-S
Output assembly representation of \fIfile\fR.
The newly created file is called ".\fIfile\fR.s" and put in the same directory as \fIfile\fR.

.TP
.B \-E
Output textual representation of \fIfile\fR to stdout.
For the LLVM backend, LLVM IR is emitted, and for the C backend, C is emitted.
You can use \fB\-o\fR to write to a file.

.TP
.B \-c
Output an object file compiled from \fIfile\fR.
The newly created file is called ".\fIfile\fR.o" and put in the same directory as \fIfile\fR.

.TP
.B \-O1, \-O2, \-O3
Enable optimizations. \fB\-O1\fR correspondes to level 1, \fB\-O2\fR to level 2, and so on.

.TP
.B \-\-c\-backend
Output files using C backend.
The newly created file is called ".\fIfile\fR.c" and put in the same directory as \fIfile\fR.

.TP
.B \-\-llvm\-no\-verify
In the LLVM backend, don't verify LLVM module(s).
This allows for forcing the output of invalid LLVM for debugging purposes.

.TP
.B \-\-color
Add color to compiler output.

.TP
.B \-g
Add debugging information.

.TP
.B \-q
Suppress warnings.

.TP
.B \-\-werror
Treat all warnings as errors.

.TP
.BI \-o " output"
Redirect output stream to \fIoutput\fR instead of default location.

.TP
.BI \-\- " args"
Forward \fIargs\fR to \fBcc\fR during the final compilation of \fIfile\fR.

.SH ENVIRONMENT

.TP
.B COLOR
Acts like \fB--color\fR when set to 1.

.SH AUTHOR
dosisod <https://github.com/dosisod>
